Josiah Matlack
EECS 332
Machine Project 3

******
REPORT
******
In this project, I implemented histogram equalization and linear filtering.
These functions are completed by two separated MATLAB files, HistoEqualization.m
and LinearFilter.m. I chose to switch to MATLAB for this project after seeing
the relative ease of use when contrasted with C++ and the OpenCV libraries.

Histogram Equalization works in the following way. An image is converted to
grayscale format, then each pixel is scanned successively. Each bin in a 
vector of size 256 is incremented based on the number of pixels from the image
in that bin. Then, the probability frequency of each of these bins is
calculated. This probability, in turn, is used to create a cumulative
distribution function of the pixel colors. Finally, this CDF is used to adjust
the values of the pixels in the image, scaling each appropriately. This
"balancing" clears up contrast-distorted images.

The linear filter takes an approach similar to erosion and dilation. A kernel is
used to probabilistically filter the input image. In my code, the kernel is
a 3x3 matrix with values [1/16, 1/8, 1/16; 1/8, 1/4, 1/8; 1/16, 1/8, 1/16], as
suggested by the textbook. The original image is padded with extra space, such
that the filter does not run off the ends of the image. Then, the filter is
applied to each 3x3 block, normalizing the lighting of the pixels based on the
value of the 8-connected neighbors and the values in the kernel. This filter
works to normalize the "brightness" of the image, so that extreme darks and
lights are not as stark.

*******
RESULTS
*******
My code results are spot-on. After histogram equalization, as seen in
histogram_equalization_output.png, my image is exactly identical to the MATLAB
built-in function histeq. The image is significantly sharper and clearer, and
closely mirrors the result in the handout.

Results are similarly impressive for the linear filter. My results are identical
to the MATLAB built-in function imfilter, as seen in linear_filter_output.png.
The clarity is markedly reduced from the original image, which is not reflective
of the result in the handout. However, I am confident in my results.
